# GCA: Gene Correlation Analysis in Single-cell RNA-seq data

Author: Feng Zhang

Email: 15110700005@fudan.edu.cn

# Demo: 

Human Oligodendrogliomas: http://omics.fudan.edu.cn/static/demo/GCA/GSE70630/index.html

# User Guide:

Requirements:

    Operation system: Mac or Linux, python=2.7, R=3.5    
    Python packages: scipy    
    R packages: stringr, pastecs, mixtools, igraph

Tips:

    Get normalized expression matrix: sup1_normData.R
    Downstream analysis of regulatory feature binary matrix: sup2_Downstream.R

Command options:

i) Expression index building (Python script)

    python | step1_BuildIndex.py | NETWORK | EXP | OUTPUT_INDEX | RATE
    
    NETWORK: a list of tab-delimited gene pairs 
    EXP: normalized expression matrix (without quotation marks)    
    OUTPUT_INDEX: the index file name, given by the user   
    RATE: the cutoff for the non-zero rate. For each gene pair, non-zero rate equals to the proportion of cells of which two genes both are detected. 

ii) Cell-specific network building (Python script)

    python | step2_CalZmat.py | OUTPUT_INDEX | OUTPUT_ZMAT | CPU    
    
    OUTPUR_INDEX: the index file generated in the first step    
    OUTPUT_ZMAT: the z-value matrix file name, given by the user   
    CPU: the number of threads to run GCA 

iii) Mixture models analyzing and result generating (R script).

    Rscript | step3_deMix.R | EXP | OUTPUT_ZMAT | OUTPUT | CPU | SEED | CUTOFF
    
    EXP: the expression matrix used in the first step
    OUTPUT_ZMAT: the z-value matrix generated in the second step
    OUTPUT: the name of the output directory, given by the user
    CPU: the number of threads to run GCA 
    SEED: seed for random function in R
    CUTOFF: the cutoff of edge score to draw the gene graph
    
iv) Get regulatory feature binary matrix (Python script).

    python | step4_getRegFeature.py | MODE | GCA_OUTPUT | OUTPUT
    
    MODE: the MODE file of TRRUST (or your own file)
    GCA_OUTPUT: the OUTPUT directory of GCA
    OUTPUT: the regulatory feature binary matrix
    
    
# Introduction of GCA’s result

The result summary HTML file named “index.html” locates in the output directory. A result demo is available at: http://omics.fudan.edu.cn/static/demo/GCA/GSE70630/index.html

The left side of this page records the contribution score of each gene, and the right side presents the edge score of each gene pair.

# Links:

    “Graph” links to the gene graph that shows the path of genes that might contribute to the expression heterogeneity. 
    “Args” links to the txt file that records GCA running options 
    “txt” in “MixInfo” links to the txt file that records the parameters of ‘mixtools’ (Benaglia, et al., 2010).
    “txt” in “Cluster” links to the txt file that records the cell labels, z-values, sub-group labels, color keys, and gene’s expression values.
    “pdf” in “Figure” links to the pdf file that shows all the figure result for each gene pair.

# The way to adjust the figure generated by GCA: 

Users can simply adjust the figure by loading the “OUTPUT.saved_RData” into R, and generate different figures follow-ing the scripts in: step3_deMix.R
